the clouded leopards kept here at cow
kiasu a part of a vital breeding program
so this is a rare opportunity to see a
young cub up close keeper Andy is
leading the way your first spotted
leopard okay this is doc my and she's
about a year and a half old we'll go out
into the big player yeah so come on give
me a baby my right this is very very
surreal
I've waited years to see my first
clouded leopard and the first one I see
is almost acting like a rather big tabby
cats you'll see this incredible markings
that they have and you know some people
say that's how they got the name cotton
leopard because it looks like the clouds
but really they were called that cuz
they live so high up in the canopy but
they do have an incredible coat I don't
have to say she is the most beautiful
cat I've ever seen pretty amazing yeah
go ahead and kneel down
just give her some pets she's just happy
to be back aside they're okay cuz I
don't actually know this cat yet mm-hm
I'm still quite cautious because I've
done quite a lot of work with cats
before him first thing you learn is that
despite their small size they're
extremely powerful I mean even a cat
this size could make a right mess of me
although she doesn't look like she's
going to at the moment fingers crossed
the reason clouded leopards are such
awesome predators is mostly down to
their mastery of both the forest floor
and also the treetops
they are sublime climbers there are very
few cats that can act quite as well in
the treetops as they can and now she
settled down a bit maybe I can show you
those remarkable paws and look at the
size of that in comparison to the rest
of their body and there's also a hidden
weapon
look at those there are those sharp
claws that she can retract or release
depending on whether she needs them or
not they're a wonderful help in getting
her up almost vertical tree trunks and
these paws here can also turn almost to
right round so that she can run down a
tree trunk almost like a squirrel now I
can't really describe what that feels
like the the tongue is like the coarsest
sandpaper you can possibly imagine and
clouded leopards use that tongue to wear
away the feathers or the fur of their
prey and actually it feels like she's
taking off a layer of skin I mean it
might have looked and looked
affectionate but it felt anything but